docs/index.rst, before:

.. EasyIDP documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Sun Jun  5 11:43:05 2022.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to EasyIDP's documentation!
===================================

:code:`EasyIDP` (Easy Intermediate Data Processor) is a handy tool for dealing with region of interest (ROI) on the image reconstruction (Metashape & Pix4D) outputs, mainly in agriculture applications. It provides the following functions:

- Clip ROI on GeoTiff Maps (DOM & DSM) and Point Cloud.
- Backward Projection ROI to original images.

.. _Sphinx: http://sphinx-doc.org

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/UTokyo-FieldPhenomics-Lab/EasyIDP?style=plastic
   :alt: GitHub code size in bytes
   :target: http://sphinx-intl.rtfd.io/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/license/UTokyo-FieldPhenomics-Lab/EasyIDP?style=plastic
   :alt: GitHub
   :target: http://pypi.org/p/sphinx-intl

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/UTokyo-FieldPhenomics-Lab/EasyIDP?style=plastic
   :alt: GitHub top language

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

docs add multi-lang tips

docs/index.rst, after:

.. EasyIDP documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Sun Jun  5 11:43:05 2022.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to EasyIDP's documentation!
===================================

:code:`EasyIDP` (Easy Intermediate Data Processor) is a handy tool for dealing with region of interest (ROI) on the image reconstruction (Metashape & Pix4D) outputs, mainly in agriculture applications. It provides the following functions:

- Clip ROI on GeoTiff Maps (DOM & DSM) and Point Cloud.
- Backward Projection ROI to original images.

.. _Sphinx: http://sphinx-doc.org

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/UTokyo-FieldPhenomics-Lab/EasyIDP?style=plastic
   :alt: GitHub code size in bytes
   :target: https://img.shields.io/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/license/UTokyo-FieldPhenomics-Lab/EasyIDP?style=plastic
   :alt: GitHub
   :target: https://img.shields.io/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/UTokyo-FieldPhenomics-Lab/EasyIDP?style=plastic
   :alt: GitHub top language

.. tip::
   This is multi-language document, you can change document languages at the bottom left corner.
   
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
